# Ird Ali

I am a masters student graduating in 2024 researching Human Robot Interaction. I have worked on embedded systems for 2 years using C++, Verilog, Python and LabVIEW. I am interested in pursuing career as a Software/Backend Engineer. I have also worked on several projects in GO.

### **Contact**

📧 irdali1996@mail.com

🔗 linkedin.com/eliird

👾 github.com/eliird

# Experience

### AI Engineer

***National Engineering and Scientific Commission**, Islamabad, Pakistan – (Jul 2019 - Jun 2021)*

- Build and maintained a database of signals generated by radio devices
- Used the maintained database to build train and test models capable of recognize the device a signal is generated from
- Worked with HR to help hire and train people for the team

### Research Intern

***Advanced Telecommunication Research**, Kyoto, Japan – (Sep 2021 - Present)*

- Worked on designing experiments to collect data for human robot interaction
- Scraped data from internet and made it compatible with the storage database
- Built and Improved a deep learning model capable of detecting eye gaze from the Videos
- Built a deep learning model capable of Understanding Conversation Dynamics in Human Human Interactions.

---

# Skills

### Python

I have extensive experience with python, having learnt it during my bachelors and have been using it for my research tasks and report generation regularly. I have worked with python for 4 years. For the last 2 years I have been using PyTorch and Tensorflow frameworks for my research regularly. I have extensive experience of using libraries like pandas, beautifulSoup, scikit-learn, matplotlib, pyodbc for data analysis and visualization.

### C++

I have used C++ for most of my projects during my bachelors including my final year project. I have used it professionally for half an year and helped migrate code from C++ to another language. My final project was to build a scheduler for a Data Acquisition System capable of receiving signals from 12 microphones and 3 cameras in real-time.  

### LabVIEW

LabVIEW is a visual programming language and I have used it for 2 years professionally to build apps and program FPGAs

### Go

I learned go for building servers for a website I want to host as a side project.

---

# Education

### Masters in Human Robot Interaction

Osaka University, Osaka, Japan

(Completion Date: March 2024)

- Developed Solid understanding of Robot Operating System.
- Acquired practical skills in using Python for building Machine Learning Models.
- Gained proficiency in data analysis using python.
- Developed a solid understanding of database management with SQL.
- Learned how to research and solve a problem with no existing solution.

### Bachelor of Electrical Engineering/Embedded Enginnering

Pakistan Institute of Engineering and Applied Science, Islamabad, Pakistan

(Graduation Date: May 2019)

- Gained a deep understanding of how computers work and how code is executed on the computers at a hardware level
- Build several projects using micro controllers:
    - 2D Robot arm capable of scanning an image, dividing it into small lines and drawing those lines using a pen
    - Scheduler for Data Acquisition System
    - Using Digital Logic Design to build a Calculator
    - Designing a smart charger for UPS

### Frontend Masters

Online platform for learning Software Developement

- Learned VIM
- Acquired practical skills in front-end technologies such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- Gained an understanding in the workings of back-end development using GO.
- Developed a solid understanding of database management with SQL and MongoDB.
- Learned version control with Git

### Udemy

Online Learning Platform

- Took a course in Data Analytics by IBM
    - Helped me gain insights of how cloud technologies help with the data analysis and how they can be used to solve problems.

---
